---
layout: area-policy
order: 1
title: Laser
discord_channel_name: "#2d-cutting-and-design"
discord_channel_url: https://discord.com/channels/775417143029661748/779217869711998978
stewards: "@steward (laser)"
---

Cutting with either laser cutter requires the laser cutter certification. The async learning module ([Laser 101 - Learn @ NEM](https://learn.northendmakers.org/course/view.php?id=2)) must be completed before certification.

## Allowed materials

If you are not sure what your material is, **do not cut it on the laser**.

- **Wood from known providers**: Baltic birch ply, bamboo, MDF, hardwoods (maple, cherry, walnut, poplar, etc.), softwoods (pine, basswood, balsa).
- **Paper products**: copy paper, card stock, chipboard, cardboard, corrugated cardboard, mat board.
- **Acrylic (PMMA)**: cast or extruded sheets (often sold as “acrylic,” “Plexiglas,” “Perspex,” “Lucite”).
- **Specific Plastics**: PET / PETG, polyester (Mylar), polyimide (Kapton).
- **Fabrics and textiles**: cotton, wool, felt (wool or approved synthetic), silk, linen, some nylons, and polyesters.
- **Leather**: vegetable‑tanned natural leather (not chrome‑tanned).
- **Rubbers**: laser‑safe stamp rubber and some natural rubbers (often labeled “laserable rubber”).
- **Foams (non‑chlorinated)**: EVA, some PE foams, “laser‑safe” craft foams, foam core board (paper faces, non‑PVC core).
- **Glass**: engrave/etch on the surface of many types of glass (e.g., drinkware, flat glass sheets), producing a frosted mark.

### Disallowed materials

**Never** cut any of the following materials on the laser, as they pose a safety risk when cut.

- **PVC** (Poly Vinyl Chloride, e.g. vinyl/pleather/artificial leather): emits pure chlorine gas
- **Polycarbonate/Lexan** thicker than 1mm: cuts poorly, discolors, catches fire
- **ABS**: emits cyanide gas
- **HDPE** (e.g. milk bottle plastic): catches fire, melts
- **Polystyrene foam**: #1 cause of laser fires!
- **Polypropylene foam**: catches fire
- **Fiberglass**: emits noxious fumes
- **Coated carbon fiber**: emits noxious fumes

## While cutting

- You must be 18 or older to use the lasers.
- Children must be supervised and not allowed to peek into the laser at edges while the laser is running.
- **Always be within arm’s reach of the E-Stop buttons.**
- If your job isn't being sent to the Mira9, there might be another instance of Lightburn running on the PC.

### In case of fire

If the air nozzle does not put out the fire immediately:

1. Stop the laser with the E-Stop.
1. Push the carriage out of the way.
1. Smother the fire with fire blanket.
1. **As a last resort**, use fire extinguisher.
1. Contact <span class="stewards-handle">{{ page.stewards }}</span> in the [#help-i-need-somebody](https://discord.com/channels/775417143029661748/1149882874003202048){: .discord-channel} channel to report the fire.

### In case of laser head crash

If the head crashes and you've had to hit the E-stop, contact <span class="stewards-handle">{{ page.stewards }}</span> in the [#help-i-need-somebody](https://discord.com/channels/775417143029661748/1149882874003202048){: .discord-channel} channel. They or one of the trained volunteers should be able to help you.

## What do I do with scrap material?

- Small acrylic & wood scrap (larger than 4"x4") can be placed in the drawers.
- Large scrap can be placed in the file drawers or alongside the cabinets in the designated areas.

## Before leaving

Remember to clean up any waste generated by your cut. The rules in [All areas]({% link area/all-areas.md %}) apply.

Don't forget your USB drive/SD card!
