---
layout: area-policy
order: 1
title: Wazer
discord_channel_name: "#2d-cutting-and-design"
discord_channel_url: https://discord.com/channels/775417143029661748/779217869711998978
stewards: "@steward (wazer)"
---

Cutting with either Wazer cutter requires the Wazer cutter certification.

The rules in [All areas]({% link area/all-areas.md %}) apply.

## Allowed materials

If you don’t know the material or have a material safety data sheet (SDS) or manufacturer statement for a material, treat it as “no‑go” until verified.

- **Metals** - Aluminum 6061, Aluminum 7075, Brass 260, Copper 110, Stainless Steel 304, Stainless Steel 316, Stainless Steel 440C, Steel 01, Steel 1008, Steel 1018, Steel 4130, Titanium - Grade 5
- **Plastics & Rubbers** - Acrylic, EPDM, HDPE, Neoprene 50A, Polycarbonate, Polyethylene Foam 4lb, Polyurethane 60A, Silicone 50A
- **Ceramic & Stone** - Borosilicate Glass, Soda Lime Glass, Graphite, Marble, Ceramic Tile
- **Other** - Carbon Fiber, Garolite G-10/FR4

## Basic troubleshooting

### What to do if Wazer isn't cutting

If the nozzle on the Wazer gets clogged, you'll get an interrupted cut line. When that happens:

- Pull out the abrasives tube to see if the water has infiltrated it, and if it has, try to clear out the clog and allow the hose to dry.
- You can also spray out the nozzle before restarting.

### Error message: "Check Drain Filters And Dump Hose When Completed Press OK"

This error means that the drain filters in the back of the Wazer are clogged.

To clear the drain filters:

1. Remove the cover in the back of the Wazer.
1. _GENTLY_ wipe the filters with a paper towel.
    - Don't worry about getting all of the grime off, just clearing them out tends to get things moving again.
1. Message <span class="stewards-handle">{{ page.stewards }}</span> on Discord for us to perform a more thorough cleaning.

If in doubt, just message the stewards and we can help out. You _can_ just restart the job, but it will run for shorter and shorter periods of time with this error until the drain filters are cleaned.

## Before leaving:

Clean out the used abrasives tub into the kitty litter tubs on the deck and leave upside down on the cutting surface.

Remember to clean up any waste generated by your cut.

Don't forget your USB drive/SD card!
